Two years ago, I made a video on Blender
for the absolute beginner basics if you
never opened this program. That video
was meant to kind of get you to your
first model. However, with Blender
updating quite a bit since then, and
that video getting a bit lost in the
sauce since it's been 2 years, I wanted
to make another one for anyone opening
this program in 2025. The first thing we
need to cover is moving in Blender. It's
a bit weird and takes a second to get
used to. So, I'll break it down very,
very easily. On your mouse, your middle
scroll wheel will let you zoom out and
zoom in. If you click in the middle
scroll wheel and drag around, you can go
around your object in whatever way
you're bringing your mouse. If you hold
shift and click the middle scroll wheel,
you can pan around your scene. And if
you have a number pad, you can click one
for front orthographic. I hope that's
how you say it. Three for right
orthographic, seven for top, and nine
for bottom. If you don't have a number
pad, you can hold Alt on your keyboard
and click in your middle mouse wheel and
drag in the direction you want it to be.
This way, you can snap to these views
without having a number pad. That's
pretty much all you need to know about
moving. It's a little weird at first,
but once you get used to it, it's not
bad at all. The next most important
thing in Blender, especially when you're
starting out, is modes. If we click on
our object, this cube, and then go up to
our modes here, you could see all of
these modes. And don't get too
overwhelmed because when you're first
starting out, sculpt, vertex, weight,
and texture matter about 0%. All you
need to know is object and edit mode. In
object mode, you're moving your mesh as
a whole. So, let's say we press G to
grab it. It's moving the whole thing.
You cannot independently edit any part
of it. However, in edit mode, we can
choose where we want to drag maybe
vertices or lines or faces. And that
brings us in to the three things we can
edit. Vertices, lines, and faces. If you
click on the verticy selection mode, you
can click any vert on your mesh and do
anything you want. If we press G to
grab, we can move this in. We could kind
of go around and just play with these
however we want. If we want to grab a
line to move it all at once, you could
do that. And if we want to grab a face,
we could do that, too. Let's press Ctrl
+ Z to get back to a basic cube and
start talking about how to turn this
into something. We're going to stay in
edit mode. I am usually on the face
selection and I press A to select
everything within this mesh. Now, in
Blender, the most daunting thing when
you're starting is keybinds. Everything
in this program has a keybind and can be
used by pressing some sort of hotkey
combination on your keyboard. It's super
daunting. We are going to get into like
four or five of them that will turn this
cube into your first model. So, we've
already said A to select everything. Up
next is S. If you press S on your
keyboard, you can scale your object
down. Now, this doesn't matter if you're
selecting everything or selecting one
face, it scales whatever your mouse is
selecting. Up next, we have E to
extrude. Now guys, this one uh I
wouldn't recommend grabbing everything
at once. This works the best on faces in
most cases. Of course, you could do it
with lines and vertices as well, but if
you press E, you can extrude that face
or whatever you're selecting beforehand.
Let's do that one more time. Now, we
could press R to rotate. And this goes
based off whatever direction you're
looking at your mesh. However, you can
also lock this down. So if you press R
and then Y, for example, you are only
rotating on the Y ais. You could do this
with all of the keybinds, by the way. So
we could do scale in the X-axis, for
example. Now that we know how to
extrude, scale, and select different
faces and rotate. Let's get into some of
the cooler ones that are really going to
start helping you out. CtrlR adds loop
cuts, aka more geometry for you to work
with. Let's say we wanted to move this
in the middle. Let's just say we want to
make it bigger. We could press Ctrl+R
and we could scroll on our mouse if we
want more. But for now, we're just going
to click to add that one. Then we could
press scale and we have a bigger section
in the middle. The last hotkey I really
want to talk about today is bevel
because it is a gamecher. As you can see
here, we have some pretty hard edges.
And sure, we could rightclick and do
shade smooth, which uh isn't really that
great. We could rightclick, do shade
smooth, auto smooth, which is a little
bit better, softening up these edges,
but we still have some very hard edges.
If we hold alt and select this line, now
we have all of these. We could do
controll andb to bevel this. We can also
use our scroll wheel to add more
segments, making that a very smooth
side. Now, be careful with bevels, uh,
especially what we call micro bevels,
like this, for example. We could bevel
this whole spot to make it softer, but
instead of adding geometry, we could
just shade smooth, auto smooth, and we
have no more geometry, but it still
looks how we wanted it to look. All
right, so we've been over the basics,
edit mode and object mode. We know how
to move in Blender, and we know how to
make the cube look a little bit
different than it looked when we joined
into Blender. Now, how do we do more?
What's next, guys? Adding in objects to
your scene is uh by far the next step.
We should turn this into something. I'm
going to press S to scale it down. Uh
and let's see. Let's just scale this
back down. I should just get rid of
this. We don't need it. Delete. If you
press shift and A on your keyboard, it
brings up this add menu. 90% of the time
I am in this mesh subsection. We have
plane, cube, circle, UV sphere,
icosphere, cylinder, cone, taurus, a
bunch of stuff. Okay, let's say we want
to make a tree. We're going to bring in
this cylinder right here. And if this is
too many vertices for our game, maybe
we're working on mobile or we want super
low poly. We could click this arrow down
here and just scale that down. I'm going
to put it at eight. Now that we have
this, we could take what we have already
learned. So, let's go into our edit
mode. The shortcut for this would be tab
on your keyboard to switch back and
forth. But in edit mode, let's scale
this down. Grab our top face and drag it
up. Press S to scale. Now we have sort
of a tree trunk. We could rightclick and
shade smooth auto smooth. We can also up
this angle so it actually looks a bit
smoother. Let's do shift A again. And
let's add in let's do a circle cuz why
not? And we'll make this 12 sides. Now
let's tab into edit mode once again. Go
to our line select mode since we're on a
circle. And let's press E to extrude it.
As you can see, it's going all over the
place. So, we're going to press E and Z
to lock it to that axis. And then we
could press S to scale. We could press
CtrlR to loop cut. S to scale. If we
press L, we can grab this whole piece. S
to scale. R to rotate. Shift D to
duplicate. R to rotate. S to scale.
Shift D. S to scale. R to rotate. As you
can see, we are quickly making a pine
tree. I could take all of these again if
I wanted to. Shift D S to scale. Bring
them here. Maybe we want to rotate this
one along the Z-axis. So, R and Z. And
maybe we want shade smooth auto smooth.
Obviously, this is not the best tree
ever made, but it does show you that you
can very easily take a super small set
of keybinds and super limited knowledge
in Blender and make something for your
game. Hopefully this video made Blender
seem a little bit less daunting. And if
any of you guys used it to make your
first model, join my Discord and post
your model and creations. I would be
super excited to see them. But that'll
wrap it up for today. If you did enjoy
and want to see more content like this,
please make sure to like, comment, and
subscribe. Have a great day. Later.